Title: Pittsburgh Restaurant Week
Date: Winter 2025: Jan. 15-21, 2024Summer: Aug. 12-18, 2024
Description: Pittsburgh Restaurant Week in January and August each year features more than 50 restaurants offering special dining deals. During the week-long, city-wide event, dine at one of Pittsburgh's finest restaurants and take advantage of three-course, fixed-price meals specials.
About: The mission of Pittsburgh Restaurant Week is to highlight the wide-ranging dining options that Pittsburgh has to offer and bring individuals from surrounding boroughs or suburbs to the city to walk the streets and enjoy a meal at a special discounted price.
History: In 2012, after several seasons without an organized restaurant week, Pittsburgh Restaurant Week returned to the city as a semi-annual restaurant week welcoming patrons far and wide to enjoy the diverse establishments which call Pittsburgh home.  

Organized as a labor of love by local food blogger Brian McCollum as a project of the Pittsburgh TasteBuds, Pittsburgh Restaurant Week embraces the melting pot of restaurants in our great city in a week-long celebration of dining and food.

The goal of the event is to highlight the numerous and diverse dining options within the community to the greater Pittsburgh region. Restaurant weeks are designed to help boost business during what is typically a slower time of the year.  

Traditionally during restaurant week, restaurants offer dining deals, like prix-fixe meals, to give patrons the opportunity to experience the areas dining landscape without breaking the bank.

Pittsburgh Restaurant Week’s inaugural event in January 2012 launched the rebirth of the program.  Marketed solely via free marketing mediums, the event’s success is attributed to the food bloggers, Twitter users, traditional and social media outlets that provided coverage of the event and generated an overwhelming sense of excitement. 

Thirty Pittsburgh-area restaurants participated by offering specials including $20.12 special menu options or fixed-price menus ranging from $15-35 or $20.12 specials.

In addition to week-long dining deals, the first Pittsburgh Restaurant Week featured an invitational dinner for Pittsburgh food bloggers and a special wrap party for participating restaurant.  The kickoff party was added during the second celebration in August 2012 to highlight and preview participants from a Pittsburgh neighborhood.  The Summer 2012 event was produced in partnership with Pittsburgh Urban Magnet Project.



Title: South Side Soup Contest
Date: Feb. 24, 2024 | Brashear Association
Description: Soup's on at the South Side Soup Contest. With Butternut Bourbon Bisque and Chipotle Chicken Chorizo, it's mmmmm good! This annual contest warms the heart - and belly. The annual February event allows shoppers in Pittsburgh's funky South Side neighborhood to sample soups from 20 local restaurants for one low price. More than 1,200 people slurped and shopped in the "Soup Hop," which benefits a local food pantry.



Title: One Big Table: An International Feasting
Date: March 4, 2024 | Stage AE
Description: 20+ restaurants showcase food from around the world to highlight Pittsburgh's diverse culinary scene and talented chefs with a food fair, entertainment, global marketplace and more. One Big Table is an initiative of Literacy Pittsburgh.



Title: Big Nosh Jewish Food Festival
Date: April 7-9, 2024 | Congregation Beth Shalom
Description: The Pittsburgh Jewish Chronicle’s first-ever Big Nosh will be the biggest celebration of Jewish and Israeli food and culture in our community. Led by the culinary expertise of Master Chef Judah Cowen of Elegant Edge Catering, the menu will feature a variety of traditional, strictly kosher dishes available for dine-in or takeout.



Title: Dessert Wars
Date: April 27, 2024 | David L. Lawrence Convention Center
Description: The largest dessert festival in the country heads to the convention center as local vendors try to win the foodie vote and be crowned Dessert Champion from offerings including cupcakes, cookies, ice cream, donuts and more.



Title: Pittsburgh Veg Fair
Date: Unknown Date
Description: Pittsburgh VegFest is celebrating 10 years in a big way with this East End celebration! This free entry food festival will showcase veg food, small businesses and animal welfare NPOs. Seating is available inside once you grab your food truck grub!



Title: Mac & Cheese Festival
Date: May 18, 2024 | Stacks at 3 Crossings
Description: Top chefs, food trucks and vendors will serve up 30+ kinds of Mac & Cheese for you to sample as we crown the best mac and cheese in Pittsburgh.



Title: Little Italy Days
Date: Thursday August 14, 5:00pm-9:00pm • Friday August 15, noon-9:00pm • Saturday August 16 noon-9:00pm • Sunday August 17, noon-5:00pm (2025)
Description: It's all-Italian-all the time at Bloomfield Little Italy Days which takes place at the end of August and features music, food, games and more food! Tacos are more than for Tuesday!
History: Little Italy Days started in 2002 to celebrate Bloomfield’s Italian heritage, and create a destination spot for Italian-themed entertainment and food. The event has grown through the years and is now lasts four days.

Sal Richetti, who was born and raised in Bloomfield has produced the event since 2012. Sal grew up in Bloomfield, attended Immaculate Conception grade school and Central Catholic High School. He is a local musician who has been performing for over 30 years in the tri-state area, and is the owner of Big Day Entertainment, located in the Strip District, since 1995. He is no stranger to the festival, having booked the entertainment in previous years.

In 2013 he expanded it to four days. Previously, the event was always held in September, since 2013 it has mooved to August. “I wanted to give vendors more opportunity with the longer daylight, additionally; there is less chance of cold weather”

“I am excited and honored to produce this community oriented event in the community where I was born and raised. I want to be able to produce Little Italy Days so the businesses can benefit from the large crowds and everyone else including residents, organizations, schools and churches can become involved.”

Sponsors of Little Italy Days include Official Sponsors – Highmark & Allegheny Health Network, Stage Sponsor – Rohrich Shadyside Honda. Additional Sponsors include UPMC Shadyside, Children’s Hospital of UPMC, PNC Bank, First National Bank, Mascaro, Pittsburgh Brewing Co. First Commonwealth Bank and Froggy’s.



Title: Vegetarian and Vegan Food Festivals
Date: Aug. 10, 2024 | Allegheny Commons ParkSept. 29, 2024 | Velum Fermentation
Description: Vegetarians and Vegans are not left out in Pittsburgh! Every summer Pittsburgh gathers for the Pittsburgh Vegan Expo & Festival as well as Pittsburgh VegFest in late summer/early fall, both highlighting local vegetable-based restaurants and shops, meat-eaters might just be surprised how satisfied you will be eating a vegetable-based meal!



Title: Lawrenceville Cookie Tour
Date: TBD 2024
Description: No description available



Title: Apple Festivals
Date: Fall 2024
Description: Fall means apple season in Pittsburgh and the surrounding region. Don't-miss apple festivals include the Hickory Apple Festival and Delmont Apple n Arts Festival which bring a healthy dose of family fun and hundreds of gallons of fresh cider to attendees.



Title: Maple Festivals
Date: March-April 2024
Description: Spring is maple season and the Maple Syrup Festival in Beaver County and Maple Taste & Tour Weekend and PA Maple Festival in Somerset County are your ticket to tree tapping and the freshest maple syrup from the state's top producers.




Title: Picklesburgh 2025
Date: July 11-13, 2025
Location: Downtown Pittsburgh
Description: Picklesburgh is an annual pickle-themed festival in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. It has taken place in Downtown Pittsburgh every summer since 2015 (excluding 2020), originally on the Three Sisters bridges and along the Allegheny Riverfront, before relocating to the Boulevard of the Allies and PPG Place for its 2023 installment.




Title: The Original Pittsburgh Taco Festival
Date: September 14th, 2024 12:30pm - 7:00pm
Description: Celebrating TACOS! The Pittsburgh Taco Festival is an annual food festival aimed at celebrating (and eating) TACOS, as well as supporting and raising funds and awareness for the city’s Latin-American community.
Hisory: The Original Pittsburgh Taco Festival® was founded in 2016 by Craig McCloud who sought to create an opportunity which benefitted food trucks/start-ups as well as support non-profits that serve the city’s burgeoning Latin American population. The festival regularly attracts vendors from beyond the metro area, as well as visitors who plan weekend visits from New York, Ohio, Maryland, West Virginia, and beyond. Over the years, tens of thousands of people have joined us for what has become an annually anticipated cultural and community event. We hope you’ll join us, too!
Partners: In addition to the many corporate and national sponsors that support our mission, we are most proud of our cultural partnerships. We work closely with Pittsburgh Hispanic Development Corporation (PHDC) and Casa San Jose, because we wish to honor the cultures responsible for what we consider the ‘greatest hand-food known to man.’ These organizations help us recruit vendors, organize entertainment, and provide authenticity to our taco-themed event. In turn they receive a generous percentage of the net proceeds.