TOSCA
Music by Giacomo Puccini
Libretto by Luigi Illica and Giuseppe Giacosa • OCTOBER 5, 8, 11, 13, 2024

She lived for art.

Would she die for love?

When painter Cavaradossi—the lover of Rome’s enchanting diva Floria Tosca—decides to harbor a fugitive of the law, he makes himself and his beloved Tosca a target of the corrupt Chief of Police, Baron Scarpia.

Now it is up to Tosca to free both her lover and herself from Scarpia’s clutches by making a horrific bargain that will have consequences for them all.

Puccini’s whirlwind political thriller packs high romance, dark motives, love, betrayal, murder, and intrigue all into a plot that unfolds over only 24 hours.

See why Tosca is one of the most powerful operas ever written.

These performances are sponsored in part by The Gailliot Fund.


PERFORMANCE DATES/TIMES/LOCATION
slide-plusslide-minus
Where: Benedum Center, at the corner of 7th Street and Penn Ave, downtown Pittsburgh 

When:
Saturday, October 5, 2024  * 8:00 PM - ~10:35 PM (approx.

end time)
Tuesday, October 8, 2024  * 7:00 PM- ~9:35 PM (approx. end time)
Friday, October 11, 2024  * 7:30 PM- ~10:05 PM (approx. end time)
Sunday, October 13, 2024  * 2:00 PM- ~4:35 PM (approx.

end time)

CAST AND ARTISTIC TEAM
slide-plusslide-minus

Floria Tosca: Ana María Martínez+

Jonathan Burton
Mario Cavaradossi: Jonathan Burton

Michael Chioldi photo credit Peter Konerko
Baron Scarpia: Kyle Albertson

Erik Nordstrom
Cesare Angelotti: Erik Nordstrom*+

Fran Daniel Laucerica
Spoletta: Fran Daniel Laucerica*

Brian Kontes
Sacristan: Brian Kontes

Matthew Soibelman
Sciarrone: Matthew Soibelman*+

Shannon Crowley
Shepherd boy: Shannon Crowley*+

Jailer: J.

Patrick McGill

 

Conductor: Antony Walker 
Stage Director: Tara Faircloth+
Set Designer: Keith Brumley
Costume Designer: Andrew Marley
Wig and Make-up Designer: James Geier
Lighting Designer: Abigail Hoke-Brady
Stage Manager: Cindy Knight
Fight Director: Tonya R.

Lynn
Assistant Fight Director: Anne Ramatt
Assistant Conductor: Glenn Lewis
Chorus Master: Mark Trawka
Associate Coach/Pianist: James Lesniak
Resident Artist Pianist:  Maeve Berry*
Assistant Stage Director: Dana Kinney*
Assistant Stage Managers:  Bee Anderson, Tess Naval

+    Pittsburgh Opera debut
*    Pittsburgh Opera Resident Artist
**   Pittsburgh Opera Resident Artist alumni

SYNOPSIS
slide-plusslide-minus
ACT I.

Cesare Angelotti, an escaped political prisoner, rushes into the church of Sant'Andrea della Valle to hide. As he slips into the Attavanti family chapel, a Sacristan shuffles in, praying at the sound of the afternoon bells. Painter Mario Cavaradossi enters to work on his portrait of Mary Magdalene.

Looking at the portrait, he compares her blond beauty to that of his raven-haired lover, the singer Floria Tosca (“Recondita armonia”). The Sacristan grumbles disapproval and leaves.

Angelotti emerges from his hiding place and is recognized by his friend and fellow liberal Mario, who gives him food and hurries him back into the chapel as Tosca is heard calling outside.

Tosca asks suspiciously why the doors to the church were locked and then reminds him of their rendezvous that evening at his villa (“Non la sospiri la nostra casetta?”). Suddenly recognizing the woman in the painting, Tosca is instantly jealous, but Mario reassures her (“Qual’ occhio al mondo”).

When she has gone, Mario summons Angelotti from the chapel; a cannon signals that the police have discovered the escape, so the two flee to Mario's villa. Meanwhile, the Sacristan returns with the choir that is to sing a Te Deum that day.

Their excitement is silenced by the entrance of Baron Scarpia, chief of the secret police, in search of Angelotti. When Tosca returns, Scarpia shows her a fan he found in Mario’s work space. Thinking Mario faithless, Tosca tearfully vows vengeance and leaves as the church fills with worshipers.

Scarpia, sending his men to follow her to Angelotti, schemes to get the diva in his power (“Va, Tosca!”).

 

ACT II. In the Farnese Palace, Scarpia anticipates the sadistic pleasure of bending Tosca to his will (“Ha più forte sapore”). The spy Spoletta arrives.

He has not found Angelotti, but has arrested Mario, and brings him in for Scarpia to interrogate while Tosca is heard singing a cantata at a royal gala downstairs. She enters just as her lover is being taken to an adjoining room; he will be forced to confess under torture.

Unnerved by Scarpia's questioning and the sound of Mario's screams, Tosca reveals Angelotti's hiding place. Mario is brought in; realizing what has happened, he turns on her, but Sciarrone rushes in to announce that Napoleon has won the Battle of Marengo, a defeat for Scarpia's side.

Mario shouts his defiance of tyranny (“Vittoria!”) and is dragged to prison. Scarpia now suggests that Tosca yield herself to him in exchange for her lover's life. Fighting off his embraces, she protests her fate to God, having dedicated her life to art and love (“Vissi d’arte”).

Scarpia again insists, but Spoletta interrupts: faced with capture, Angelotti has killed himself. Tosca, forced to give in or lose her lover, agrees to Scarpia's proposition. The baron pretends to order a mock execution for Mario, after which he is to be freed; Spoletta leaves.

As Scarpia finishes signing a safe-conduct document for the lovers, Tosca snatches a knife from the table and kills him, then wrenches the safe-conduct pass from the dead man’s hand.

 

ACT III. The voice of a shepherd boy is heard as church bells toll at dawn.

Mario awaits execution at the Castel Sant'Angelo; he bribes the jailer to convey a farewell note to Tosca. Writing it, overcome with memories of love, he gives way to despair (“E lucevan le stelle”). Suddenly Tosca arrives, filled with the story of her recent adventures.

Mario caresses the hands that committed murder for his sake, and the two anticipate a brighter future. As the firing squad appears, the diva coaches Mario on how to fake his death convincingly; the soldiers fire and depart.

Tosca urges Mario to hurry, but when he fails to move, she discovers that Scarpia's treachery has transcended the grave—the bullets were real.

When Spoletta rushes in to arrest Tosca for Scarpia's murder, she cries to Scarpia to meet her before God, then leaps to her death.

-Adapted from Opera News

DETAILS AND RESOURCES
slide-plusslide-minus
We want you to have the best experience possible at our performances!

Here are some details and resources to help.

Also visit our Opera FAQs or our Accessibility page.

Run time: approx.

2 hours 36 minutes (includes two intermissions)
Act I

 	
46 minutes

Intermission

 	
20 minutes

Act II

 	
42 minutes

Intermission

 	20 minutes
Act III

 	
28 minutes

TOTAL

 	
2 hours, 36 minutes

Understand Every Word: Understand Every Word: Tosca is sung in Italian, but English supertitles are projected above the stage
Special Effects Notice: Simulated gunshots are used in this production
Parking Downtown: get real-time parking availability
Pre-Opera Talks before each performance
Braille Programs available at The Benedum Center
Large-Print Programs available at The Benedum Center
Download the Study Guide here.

CHILD POLICY:

Children must be ages 6 and up. Suggestions and tips for bringing children to the opera may be found at pittsburghopera.org/FAQ.
All children must have a ticket.

There is a 50% discount for kids and teens ages 6-18.
BENEDUM SAFETY AND SECURITY STATEMENT
slide-plusslide-minus
The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust has implemented new security and bag policies, effective starting October 1, 2016, at the Benedum Center and their other venues.

You can read their Safety & Security statement, which includes an updated list of prohibited items, and read their Bag Policy, on their website.

