Pittsburgh Opera strives to make opera financially and intellectually accessible to all.

Join us this season for free and low-cost events such as Opera Up Close, Song Shop concerts, outdoor park concerts, and more.

During a Song Shop concert, you bring the snacks and we bring the entertainment at the Bitz Opera Factory.

Once a month (excluding January and May) during our season, Pittsburghers and visitors of all ages are invited to enjoy free intimate noontime concerts.

Our Pittsburgh Opera Resident Artists perform some of opera’s most popular arias, as well as a mix of Broadway, musical theater and other surprises.

These concerts are a wonderful opportunity for an informal introduction to opera.

Bring a friend and bring a lunch.

Guests can even meet the performers after the performances! Doors will open at 11:30am for these live events.

Song Shop Concert Dates 2024–25

October 19, 2024  
November 23, 2024  
December 14, 2024 (Holiday Concert)
February 15, 2025
April 12, 2025 
Watch our website and social media for information about upcoming concerts.

Natural Awakenings Magazine is the official media sponsor of Pittsburgh Opera’s Song Shop concerts.
Ticketholders are invited to attend a Pre-Opera Talk one hour before each performance’s 
curtain at the Benedum Center, the Byham Theater, and CAPA.

Learn about the composer, the story, and some juicy details about the opera!

These talks are free to all ticketholders.

The Pre-Opera Talks are given by Kristin Gatch, Assistant to the General Director and Development Research Associate.
Ticketholders for each Tuesday opera performance are invited to join General Director Christopher Hahn immediately following the performance to enjoy lively repartee, as Mr.

Hahn interviews the stars of the production.

This event is free to all Tuesday opera ticketholders, and is held in the Lower Lobby for Benedum performances, in the theater after the Tuesday performance at the August Wilson African American Cultural Center performances, and in the performance space at the Bitz Opera Factory.
Community concerts are another great opportunity for an informal introduction to opera, and Pittsburgh Opera takes every opportunity to sing for the community.

Past free concerts have included:

Allegheny County Summer Concert series
Market Square Farmers Market Lunchtime Concerts
Restart the Arts Bus Tour
Light On Celebration
Children's Hospital Holiday Concerts
Watch our website calendar and social media for information about upcoming concerts.

Pittsburgh Opera often performs at either the South Park Amphitheater or the Hartwood Acres Amphitheater each summer as part of the Allegheny County Summer Concert Series.

These fun, free 90-minute programs typically feature many of opera's greatest hits, as well as favorite selections from the American songbook.

The singers are a mix of current and former Pittsburgh Opera Resident Artists and guest artists.

Learn more about the Allegheny County Summer Concert Series.
WQED-FM radio broadcasts are the perfect way to catch up on the past and upcoming seasons of Pittsburgh Opera.

WQED-FM broadcasts each of Pittsburgh Opera's previous-season productions, in their entirety, in the weeks leading up to our new season's opening night.

If a production was sold out, or you just want to hear your favorite arias again, WQED-FM's broadcasts are a great way to hear these performances. See the schedule below for details.
Hosted by WQED’s Anna Singer, the Pittsburgh Opera Preview Shows are half-hour previews of each upcoming opera.

Each 30-minute Preview Show is broadcast twice before each production opens (the Saturday before opening night, and again the night before opening night), giving listeners an in-depth introduction to the opera’s singers, music, and production.

WQED-FM Re-Cap Shows for our 2023-24 Season:

The Barber of Seville – Saturday, August 31, 2024
The Flying Dutchman – Saturday, September 7, 2024
Iphigénie en Tauride – Saturday, September 14, 2024
Proving Up –  Saturday, September 21, 2024
La Traviata –  Saturday, September 28, 2024
The Passion of Mary Cardwell Dawson –  Saturday October 5, 2024

WQED-FM Preview Shows for our 2024-25 Season:

Tosca – Saturday, September 28 & Friday, October 4, 2024
Cavalleria Rusticana/Pagliacci  – Saturday, November 2 & Friday, November 8, 2024
Armida – Saturday, January 18 & Friday, January 24, 2025
Madama Butterfly – Saturday, March 15 & Friday, March 21, 2025
Woman With Eyes Closed – Saturday, April 19 & Friday, April 25, 2025 
As a principal in the city’s cultural community since 1939, Pittsburgh Opera and its events have developed a reputation for elegance and excitement.

DIAMOND HORSESHOE 2024 
Saturday, September 28, 2024
Bitz Opera Factory (2425 Liberty Avenue)

The 69th annual Diamond Horseshoe Celebration welcomes everyone back to a fresh season of opera with an elegant evening of cocktails and live performances by our much-loved Resident Artists!

0210 Sparkling Speakeasy Diamond Horseshoe 2023-1
Guests at Sparkling Speakeasy, October 2023
Fashion Show
Monday, February 24, 2025
Bitz Opera Factory (2425 Liberty Avenue)

Join us for Threads of Destiny, a stunning visual narrative honoring the legacy of operatic masterpieces like Madama Butterfly while pushing the boundaries of modern couture.

25-fashionshow-carousel
Threads of Destiny

MAECENAS XL
Saturday, May 17, 2025
Monterey Bay Fish Grotto
1411 Grandview Avenue

Opera in Red will be the theme of Pittsburgh Opera’s annual season-ending, signature fundraising gala.

Returning to Monterey Bay Fish Grotto for the second year, attendees will celebrate among the stars while enjoying elevated cocktails, dinner, awards, and live performances by the Pittsburgh Opera Resident Artists.

maecenas-sq-nologo
Opera in Red

For more information about any of our special event fundraisers or to explore ways to support, please contact Torrance Gricks at 412-281-0912, ext.

225.

