

Maecenas XL
OPERA IN RED
Saturday, May 17, 2025 | 5:30 PM 
Monterey Bay Fish Grotto
1411 Grandview Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15211

Suggested Dress: Red, ruby, or scarlet inspired formal attire.

Join us for our season-closing gala, Opera in Red, to celebrate Pittsburgh Opera’s world-class artistry and impactful education initiatives.

Enjoy a delicious dinner overlooking the Pittsburgh skyline, special performances by Resident Artists, award presentations to some of Pittsburgh’s most impactful artists and philanthropists, and the chance to dance the night away in style.

Your support for this unforgettable evening allows the opera to continue engaging with underserved communities, providing educational programs for schoolchildren, and creating performance opportunities for emerging artists.

We invite you to paint the town red with your passion for the arts.

Don’t miss Pittsburgh Opera’s Opera in Red on May 17th!

Make your mark on the event as a sponsor! Sponsorship and underwriting opportunities begin at $2,500. For more information on event sponsorship, please contact Torrance Gricks or call (412) 281-0912 ext.

225.


EXPERIENCE LEVELS: 

Host Committee - $900
5:30 PM Arrival

Spread the word about Maecenas XL: Opera In Red and encourage friends, families, and corporate contacts to purchase tickets or sponsor the event
Name recognition as a Host Committee member on our website and event signage
VIP welcome reception with raw bar, hors d’oeuvres, and craft cocktails
Dinner overlooking the Pittsburgh skyline
Performances by the Pittsburgh Opera Resident Artists
Dessert and dancing in the Lounge
Valet Parking
Patron Ticket - $550
6:00 PM Arrival

Cocktails and hors d’oeuvres
Dinner overlooking the Pittsburgh skyline
Performances by the Pittsburgh Opera Resident Artists
Dessert and dancing in the Lounge
Valet Parking
Special Patron Rates
*Early Bird* Sale March 10-22: $450
Monteverdi Society Members: $400
New Guard Members:  $350

Scarlet Soirée  - $125
8:30 PM Arrival

Dance the night away with DJ Cake in the Lounge at Monterey Bay!
Ticket includes open bar, light bites, dessert, and dancing in the lounge
Valet Parking
2025 EVENT COMMITEE
slide-plusslide-minus
Maecenas Chairs
Christine Toretti & Dr.

Karen Roche Galey

Scarlet Soiree Chairs
Tylar and Gary Zamary


Host Committee

Howard and Marilyn Bruschi
Dr. Raymond A. Capone, Jr. and Dr. Martha R. Clarke
Doris Carson Williams
Dr. Lisa Cibik and Bernie J. Kobosky
James and Melanie Crockard
John and Virginia DiPucci
Michele Fabrizi
Drs.

Karen and R. Kent Galey
Alice V. Gelormino
Nachum Golan and Steve Hough
Christopher Hahn and Ron Booth
Dr. Susan Candace Hunt
Dr. Michael and Kumiko Lancet
Dr. Michael Lewis and Dr. Katia Sycara
Abby L. Morrison and Paul M.

Teplitz
Mary Anne Papale
Pam Selker Rak and Bob Rak
Robin Randall
Dominic Rupprecht and Greg Vose
Drs. Sharon and Robert Sclabassi
Steve Seibert and Charlie Anderson
Drs. Robert H. and Janet E.

Squires
Gene Welsh and Marty Healey
Jeffrey Wigton
Izear Winfrey
 

(Listing as of 2/27/25)

2025 HONOREES
slide-plusslide-minus
Maecenas Award: Robert and Christine Pietrandrea

In recognition of their generosity, philanthropy, and dedication to keeping opera on stage in Pittsburgh.

Learn more.

Lifetime Achievement Award: The Pittsburgh Opera Monteverdi

In recognition of their investment in the future of Pittsburgh Opera through a legacy gift. Learn more.

Renaissance Award: Dr.

Harry Clark

In recognition of his dedication to music and the arts in Pittsburgh as the founder of Pittsburgh CAPA Performing Ats High School.

Learn more.

2025 SPONSORS
slide-plusslide-minus
Are you looking to significantly impact the success of this event and introduce your unique brand to the Pittsburgh Opera audience? Please consider individual or corporate sponsorship.

To sponsor Maecenas XL: Opera in Red, please contact Torrance Gricks via email or at 412-281-0912 x225.

 

Gold Sponsor ($25,000 +)

Silver Sponsor ($15,000 +)

Pearl Sponsor ($10,000 +)

Bronze Sponsor ($5,000 +)
Giant Eagle Foundation
Mark Flaherty & Mary McKinney Flaherty
Miller McCurry

MAECENAS AWARD HISTORY
slide-plusslide-minus
The event’s namesake, Gaius Maecenas, was friend to the first Emperor of Rome, Caesar Augustus, and a celebrated patron to such artists of his time as Horace and Virgil.

Today his name is synonymous with “patron of the arts.” Pittsburgh Opera’s Maecenas Award is bestowed upon benefactors whose exceptional dedication to our work ensures that live opera can thrive in Pittsburgh.

Previous award honorees include:

Lifetime Achievement Award

Nadine E. Bognar
Dr.

Jared L. Cohon
Governor Tom Corbett
First Lady Susan Corbett
Arthur “Jack” Kerr
Robert Nutting
Janet Sarbaugh
Vincent Sarni
Tom Wolf, Governor of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
Donald Cardinal Wuerl
Maecenas Award

François J. Bitz
Electra and James R. Agras
Michele and Pat Atkins
Nadine E.

Bognar
Carol R. Brown
Tony Bucci
Kathleen Casey Craig
Daya
Michele Fabrizi
Mary Louise Gailliot and the late Henry J. Gailliot
Teresa Heinz Kerry
Dr. Arthur S. Levine
Jeffrey Lipton
Carol and Joseph A. Massaro, Jr.
Dr. Andrew W. Moore
Thomas H.

O’Brien
Mark Pasquerilla
Jan and Dick Pagliari
Kathe and Jim Patrinos
PNC
David Porges
Jeffrey Romoff
Vincent A.

Sarni
Charles Stegeman
Nancy and John Traina
Doris Carson Williams
Renaissance Award

Stephanie Blythe
Maestro Richard Bonynge
Tito Capobianco
Marianne Cornetti
Mary Cardwell Dawson
Vivica Genaux
Nathan Gunn
Christopher Hahn
Jake Heggie
Marilyn Horne
Terrence McNally
Sherrill Milnes
Claudia Pinza
Roberta Peters
Mildred Miller Posvar
Regina Resnik
General Norman Schwarzkopf
Renata Scotto
Beverly Sills
Dame Joan Sutherland
Shirlee Verrett
Joe Volpe
Past Chairs

Electra and James R.

Agras
Barbara L. Barry
Ritchie Battle
Vivian and Bill Benter
Sandra L. Bettor
Nadine E. Bognar
Maryanne dePalma and Howard Burnett
Barbara and Gerald Chait
Lisa M. Cibik and Bernie Kobosky
Lisa M.

Cibik and Ali Good
Pamela Estes and James Ferry
Cindy and Murry Gerber
Laura and Claude Kronk
Bonnie Levine
Shelly and Jeffery Lipton
Carol and Joseph A.

Massaro, Jr.
Patricia and Attila Molnar
Jan and Dick Pagliari
Kathe and Jim Patrinos
Gabriela and David Porges
Chris Pritchard
Dottie and Vincent A.

Sarni
Teri and Damien Soffer
Saundra and William Stout
Christine Toretti
James Will
Gillian and David Williams
EVENT HISTORY
slide-plusslide-minus
Named for Gaius Maecenas, the wealthy Roman statesman and cultural patron, the Maecenas gala has developed a reputation for a spectacular environment and great entertainment.

SEEN hails it as “one of the best black-tie galas in town” and by the Tribune-Review as one of Pittsburgh’s top parties of the year.

Each year, this event is a critical aspect of Pittsburgh Opera’s fundraising efforts to keep music alive in Pittsburgh and the surrounding areas.

Annually, Maecenas galas celebrate a successful season for Pittsburgh Opera and recognize individuals who have contributed significantly to the performing arts in Pittsburgh or within their respective fields.

Each year, a few worthy recipients receive Awards from Pittsburgh Opera.

