

ARMIDA
Music by Joseph Haydn
Libretto taken from Antonio Tozzi's 1775 opera 'Rinaldo', as amended by Nunziato Porta • JANUARY 25, 28, 31, FEBRUARY 2, 2025


All’s fair in love and war

To prevent the capture of Jerusalem by the knights of the First Crusade, The Prince of Darkness has sent the enchantress Armida into the world to seduce the Christian heroes and turn them from their duty.

The bravest of these, Rinaldo, has fallen under Armida's spell. But, to her surprise, she becomes enchanted by him as well. She comes to love him so deeply that she cannot bring herself to destroy him. For both, duty clashes with desire.

As war rages around them, will love conquer them both?

Containing some of Haydn’s most inspired music, not only is Armida Haydn’s most highly regarded opera, but the composer himself referred to it as his best work.

These will be Pittsburgh Opera's first performances of Armida.

Pittsburgh Opera will mount a new production.

PERFORMANCE DATES/TIMES/LOCATION
slide-plusslide-minus
Where: Four performances at Pittsburgh CAPA School Theater, Downtown

When:

Saturday, January 25, 2025  * 8:00 PM
Tuesday, January 28, 2025  * 7:00 PM
Friday, January 31, 2025  * 7:30 PM
Sunday, February 2, 2025  * 2:00 PM
CAST AND ARTISTIC TEAM
slide-plusslide-minus
Michael Chioldi photo credit Peter Konerko
Armida: Lauryn Davis*+

Fran Daniel Laucerica
Rinaldo: Fran Daniel Laucerica*

Erik Nordstrom
Ubaldo: Erik Nordstrom*

Audrey Welsh Headshot 2024SmallSquare
Clotarca: Audrey Welsh*

Matthew Soibelman
Idreno: Matthew Soibelman*

Shannon Crowley
Zelmira: Shannon Crowley*

Conductor: Antony Walker 
Stage Director: Haley Stamats**
Set Designer: Kejia Yu 
Costume Designer: Yinxue Wang 
Wig and Make-up Designer: Nicole Pagano
Lighting Designer: Mary Ellen Stebbins
Stage Manager: Tess Naval
Assistant Conductor: Glenn Lewis
Director of Musical Studies: Mark Trawka
Associate Coach/Pianist: James Lesniak
Resident Artist Pianist:  Maeve Berry*
Assistant Stage Director:  Dana Kinney*
Assistant Stage Manager: Bee Anderson

+    Pittsburgh Opera debut
*    Pittsburgh Opera Resident Artist
**   Pittsburgh Opera Resident Artist alumni

SYNOPSIS
slide-plusslide-minus
To prevent the capture of Jerusalem by the knights of the First Crusade, King Idreno has sent the sorceress,  Armida, into the world to seduce the Christian heroes and turn them from their duty.

The bravest of these, Rinaldo, has fallen under Armida's spell. She comes to love him so deeply that she cannot bring herself to destroy him.

Act 1
Scene 1: A council chamber in the royal palace of Damascus. 

King Idreno is alarmed by news that the crusaders have crossed the Jordan River.

He offers his kingdom and Armida’s hand in marriage to the Christian knight Rinaldo if he agrees to fight against his fellow Christians. Enchanted and obsessed with Armida, Rinaldo vows to betray his men and his faith.

Meanwhile, Armida, tormented by her passionate love for Rinaldo, pleads with the gods for his safety.

Scene 2: A mountainside. 

The knights Ubaldo and Clotarca plan to rescue Rinaldo from Armida’s enchantment. Idreno sends Zelmira, the daughter of the Sultan of Egypt, to ensnare the Christians.

However, upon encountering Clotarca, Zelmira falls in love with her, despite her better judgment, and offers to lead her to safety.

Scene 3: Armida's apartments.

Rinaldo admires the bravery of Idreno’s approaching forces.

Ubaldo warns Rinaldo about Armida’s charms and chastises him for abandoning his Christian duty. Though remorseful, Rinaldo remains unable to break free from Armida’s enchantment.

Act 2
Scene 1: Back in the council chamber. 

Zelmira fails to dissuade Idreno from planning an ambush of the crusaders.

Idreno pretends to agree to Clotarca's demand that the Christian knight enchanted by Armida be freed. Though the spell is broken, Rinaldo reluctantly leaves with Ubaldo. Armida expresses her fury.

 

Scene 2: Back at the mountainside.

Ubaldo welcomes Rinaldo back as he prepares to rejoin the crusaders in battle. Armida arrives, pleading for refuge and Rinaldo’s love. Rinaldo, torn but resolute, departs for battle with Ubaldo, leaving Armida betrayed and alone.

Act 3

Scene 1: A dark, forbidding grove, with a large myrtle tree.

Rinaldo, aware that the myrtle tree holds the secret to Armida’s powers, enters the grove to destroy it. Zelmira and a group of nymphs appear, attempting to persuade him to return to Armida.

As Rinaldo raises his weapon to strike the myrtle, a disheveled Armida emerges from the tree and confronts him. Unable to kill Rinaldo despite her fury, she watches as he strikes the tree, causing the magic wood to fall lifeless. As Rinaldo tries to escape, he declares to still love her.

Armida, consumed by fury, turns into a monster of rage, destroying all in her path.

 

Courtesy of Pinchgut Opera

 

DETAILS & RESOURCES
slide-plusslide-minus
We want you to have the best experience possible at our performances!

Here are some details and resources to help.

Also visit our Opera FAQs or our Accessibility page.

Run time: 
Act 1: 56 min
(20 min Intermission)
Acts 2 & 3: 1 hr 9 min

Total Runtime: 2 hr 25 min

Understand Every Word: Understand Every Word: Armida is sung in Italian, but English supertitles are projected above the stage
Pre-Opera Talks before each performance
Braille Programs available 
Large-Print Programs available 
Download Study Guide
CHILD POLICY:

Children must be ages 6 and up.

Suggestions and tips for bringing children to the opera may be found at pittsburghopera.org/FAQ.
All children must have a ticket. There is a 50% discount for kids and teens ages 6-18.

