Pittsburgh Pirates
Raise the Jolly Roger! Let's Go Bucs!

Baseball in Pittsburgh
The best time to visit Pittsburgh is during baseball season, and an evening in Pittsburgh is best spent at one of the most popular ballparks in all of baseball, PNC Park. 

With downtown Pittsburgh serving as a scenic backdrop and a dramatic entry via the Roberto Clemente Bridge along the Allegheny River, you'll see why Pittsburghers and visitors love to cheer for the Pittsburgh Pirates.

ABC News, TripAdvisor, ESPN and more have named PNC Park as an ultimate site to catch a game with a spectacular view of the Downtown skyline.

And there is always great events, promotions and giveaways during baseball season. Don't miss your chance to win t-shirts, hats, backpacks and bobble heads. 

You can have a front-row seat as you see the skyline light up on Fireworks Night, bring your dog to the ballpark on Pup Night every Tuesday, or stay after the game for a free concert on specific evenings.

While you are in town for a game, stop by the Western Pennsylvania Sports Museum or the Clemente Museum and relive some of the great moments of Pittsburgh sports history.

So round up your family and friends and make your way down to PNC Park to catch a game. Let’s Go Bucs!


Pittsburgh Steelers
Here We Go Steelers, Here We Go!

Football in Pittsburgh
You can't walk down a Pittsburgh street without seeing Steeler Pride. Whether it's a Terrible Towel in a storefront, or someone wearing a Steelers shirt (any time of year), you feel the intensity everywhere you go.

And with good reason! The Steelers are six time Super Bowl winners, and Acrisure Stadium is a behemoth on the North Shore, creating a skyline view that's as interesting as Pittsburgh itself.

You can enjoy Steelers Football in Pittsburgh before you ever even go to a game. Steelers training camp happens just outside of the city. Catch your favorite Steelers on the turf starting in July! Check out this guide to Pittsburgh Steelers Training Camp from Visit Laurel Highlands.

Be sure to check the Steelers game schedule to be first in line to score the tickets on a lifetime!

HERE WE GO!


Pittsburgh Penguins
It's a great night for hockey in Pittsburgh!


In Pittsburgh, it's easy to get caught up in the excitement of hockey season. And, with PPG Paints Arena located right in the heart of Downtown Pittsburgh, it's even easier to see an electrifying game any night of the week.

Go to the Penguins Official Site for ticket information, game schedules, videos, podcasts, and more. And, be sure to visit the Official Penguins Store, your resource for hats, jerseys, collectives, and merch, all available online.



College Sports
Catch a game at one of the many universities in Pittsburgh, including the University of Pittsburgh, Duquesne University and Robert Morris University.

University of Pittsburgh Panthers
The University of Pittsburgh is home to many of the city’s most popular college teams. Calling Acrisure Stadium home, Pitt Football has a pedigree of success, recently adding the 2021 ACC Championship to their accomplishments to go with their 9 national titles. 

The team has also produced household football names such as Dan Marino, Kenny Pickett, Aaron Donald and Mike Ditka. The Pitt Men’s Basketball team plays at the Peterson Events Center in front of their loud and lively student section, the Oakland Zoo.

 Pitt Volleyball (2021) and Men’s Soccer (2020) have also made recent national Final 4 trips. The University is a member of the ACC and sponsors 17 Division I Varsity teams.

Duquesne University
Duquesne University is a member of the NCAA and sponsors 16 Division I sports (football competes in the Football Championship Subdivision). Duquesne is a member of the Atlantic 10 Conference in all sports other than football (associate member of the Northeast Conference).

Robert Morris University
RMU is home to 23 intercollegiate athletic teams at the highest level of collegiate athletics, NCAA Division 1. Teams include the only men's and women's Division I ice hockey squads in the Pittsburgh region and the only Division I men's lacrosse team between Columbus and State College. 

RMU plays in the prestigious Northeast Conference. The football team has won the most championship titles in the conference.

In addition to the NCAA Division I schools, Pittsburgh is also home to the sports teams of Carlow, Carnegie Mellon, Chatham and Point Park universities, as well as La Roche College and the Community College of Allegheny County.



Other Sports Teams
​Pittsburgh couldn't call itself a city of champions without these winning teams.

Pittsburgh Riverhounds
Since 1999, the Riverhounds have been Pittsburgh’s pro soccer team. Nicknamed the Hounds, they play their games at Highmark Stadium next to Station Square. 

Riverhounds games boast on the best views in American pro soccer, a great family-friendly environment and their loud supporter section, The Steel Army. They play in the USL Championship, where they have made the playoffs four years running.

Pittsburgh Passion
The Pittsburgh Passion Women's Football is the most recognized women's full-contact football franchise in the world. Winner of a National Championship and four Divisional Championships. The team debuted in March 2002 and now shares Highmark Stadium with the Riverhounds.

Pittsburgh Knights
A global esports franchise, with teams and players in popular games like Rocket League, Rainbow Six, PUBG Mobile, Mortal Kombat and Madden.

History of the Terrible Towel
Discover the history of The Terrible Towel of the Pittsburgh Steelers which began with Myron Cope and lives on today.



The History of the Luckiest Towel in Sports
The Terrible Towel was created by the late Myron Cope, the Pittsburgh Steelers broadcaster who needed a way to excite the team's fans during a 1975 playoff football game against the Baltimore Colts. 

Cope urged fans to take yellow dish towels to the game and wave them throughout. The stands were filled that day and the Steelers always seemed to complete terrific plays when the towels were waving. 

The Steelers won, 28-10. The team moved on in the playoffs and for Super Bowl X in January 1976, the Steelers introduced gold towels with the words "Myron Cope's Terrible Towel" printed in black. 

The Steelers went on to beat the Dallas Cowboys, 21-17, many claiming, "thanks to the Towel."

In 1996 Mr. Cope gave the rights to "Myron Cope's Official Terrible Towel" to the Allegheny Valley School in the Pittsburgh suburb of Coraopolis. 

The school provides care for more than 900 children, adults and senior citizens with mental retardation and physical disabilities.

Proceeds from the Terrible Towel have helped raise almost $1.1 million for the school. On Jan. 15, 2005, during the Steelers playoff run at Acrisure Stadium, VisitPittsburgh sponsored the "World's Largest Terrible Towel Wave," reaching millions of Steelers fans around the world, known amongst themselves as "Steelers Nation." 

The team came back from what appeared to be a sure loss against the New York Jets, winning the game in overtime, 20-17. It appeared that the Towel had done it again.

The Steelers went on to host another home game the following week, Jan. 23, 2005, vs. the Patriots. Another massive Terrible Towel Wave was organized but this time the Steelers lost, 41-27. 

The victors that day went on to win Super Bowl XXXIX in Jacksonville. But the Steelers didn't give up on the Terrible Towel. On Halloween, Oct. 31, 2005, a special Terrible Towel was created to honor the retired Cope for his 35 years as a Steelers broadcaster and was waved prior to the Monday Night Football game between the Steelers and the Baltimore Ravens at Heinz Field (now named Acrisure Stadium). 


A limited edition of 35,000 were made, all with familiar "Cope-isms" like "Yoi!" By the way, that night, the Steelers won, 20-19.

For Super Bowl XL, played on Feb. 5, 2006 in Detroit, a special edition Terrible Towel was created for fans around Steelers Nation to help the team to victory. It worked! 

The Steelers beat the Seattle Seahawks, 21-10. Sadly, Myron passed away on Feb. 27, 2008 but his legend lives on. For Super Bowl XLIII, Feb. 1, 2009 in Tampa, another towel was produced to mark the occasion. The outcome? Steelers over Arizona, 27-23, to give them an unprecedented six Super Bowl Championships.

On Sunday, Jan. 23, 2011, the Steelers not only beat the New York Jets in the AFC Championship to advance to their third Super Bowl in six years, the game was played on what would have been Myron's 82nd birthday.

Somehow that just seems so right. Those who knew and loved Myron, friends and fans alike, know he’s somewhere smiling and cheering, "Here We Go Steelers, Here We Go!"

The Terrible Towels will be out in force Christmas weekend 2022. The Immaculate Reception, the greatest play in NFL history, fittingly celebrates its (black and) golden 50th anniversary with festivities reuniting Steelers legends from that era during a rematch against the Raiders at Acisure Stadium on Dec. 24, 2022.


Pittsburgh Riverhounds
Come on you Hounds!

A visit to a Pittsburgh Riverhounds (referred to as The Hounds) game at Highmark Stadium will show you that soccer is a growing sport with an energetic fanbase in the city. 

Highmark Stadium is a unique stadium where every seat in the house is a good one. With a 5,000-seat capacity, fans can take in the game with one of the best views of the city as a backdrop, cheer along with the supporter’s section or enjoy the luxury boxes! 

The on-field product is pretty good too; The Hounds have made the playoffs in the USL Championship every year since 2018.

Be sure to check out the Riverhounds’ official website for their schedule, tickets, stadium information, pro shop and so much more. Riverhounds’ games are a great environment for families and die-hard sports fans alike.


What is The Terrible Towel?
Created by Steelers radio broadcaster, Myron Cope in 1975, the Terrible Towel is easily one of the most recognizable symbols in the NFL and waving it during games has become a revered tradition. Towels can be purchased in stadium or at sports stores around the North Shore.

What is the song played during the fourth quarter?
When the Steelers need a big stop in the fourth quarter, the song Renegade by Styx resonates throughout Acrisure Stadium. Playing the song is a tradition that's equally important for fans as it is for players and represents Pittsburgh's defensive strength in the fourth quarter.

What’s the meaning behind the Steelers logo?
While it's widely known that the Steelers are named for Pittsburgh's rich steel history, few recognize the meaning behind the logo. Each of the hypocycloids represents one of the three materials used to make steel. Yellow represents coal, red is for iron ore and steel scrape is illustrated with blue.

Why do Steelers fans chant “Here We Go Steelers?”
During games, you'll hear fans chanting "Here We Go, Steelers!" While it seems like a simple chant, there's some history behind this one too. “Here We Go,” originally written by Rodger Wood and recorded in 1994, was and still is intended as a Steelers fight song.

Pittsburgh Steelers 2025 Season Opponents  

Home Games:Baltimore Ravens  Cincinnati Bengals  Cleveland Browns  Buffalo Bills  Green Bay Packers  Indianapolis Colts  Miami Dolphins  Minnesota Vikings  Seattle Seahawks  

Away Games:Baltimore Ravens  Cincinnati Bengals  Cleveland Browns  Chicago Bears  Detroit Lions  Los Angeles Chargers  New England Patriots  New York Jets